  Logstash Overview
  Logstash is an open-source data collection engine used to collect, process, and forward events and log messages. 
  Logstash is capable of taking data from different sources and normalizing the data into a parsable format to be sent to a destination. 
  Although it can be used with any log collection tools, Logstash is primarily intended for The Elastic Stack due to its tight integration and powerful log-processing capabilities.

The main services that Logstash provides are the following:
  Log collection: Collects logs from different sources and gathers the collected data.
  Log processing: Applies transformations to the collected data, typically to normalize data across multiple datasets or parse incoming data and break it down for searching or indexing.
  Log forwarding: Sends the processed data to a different application for further processing or storing.

Logstash Pipelines
  Logstash pipelines are how data is handled from inception to delivery within a Logstash solution. Logstash pipelines include ingestion or input of data, transformation or filtering of data, and delivery or output of data.

Splunk Forwarder
  Splunk forwarders are the data aggregation tool used by Splunk systems, specifically Splunk Enterprise. Splunk forwarders consume data and send it to an indexer, which can be standalone or built into a Splunk Enterprise instance.

Three different types of forwarders:
  Universal forwarder: Contains only the components that are necessary to forward data. A universal forwarder has no indexing or data searching capability; however, they have the smallest system resource usage.
  Heavy forwarder: Parses data before it is forwarded and routes data based on criteria like source or event type. A heavy forwarder also indexes data locally and forwards to another Splunk instance. With all these features, a heavy forwarder consumes the most system resources.
  Light forwarder: Sacrifices additional capabilities found in heavy forwarders for the sake of preserving system resources. No indexing or data parsing is performed and is used only to forward data to Splunk instances. A light forwarder is generally used only in legacy applications.

D﻿ata Types
  Raw: The forwarder sends unaltered data over a Transmission Control Protocol (TCP) stream. It does not convert the data into a Splunk communication format. The forwarder simply collects data and sends it, which is useful for sending data to non-Splunk systems.
  Unparsed: No transformations are done to the data; however, the data is tagged with a source, source type, and host information. The data stream is also divided into blocks and timestamped for easier categorization by the receiving indexer.
  Parsed: This data is broken down into individual events, which are then tagged and forwarded. Because the data has been parsed, the forwarder can perform conditional routing based on specific data found in the events.

Advanced Features and Configurations
  Many advanced features are used with Splunk forwarders to help increase their capabilities. 
  Such features include data parsing, which allows the performance of event and field extractions. 
  Searching and alerting allows alert generation and pre-instance searching for heavy forwarders.
  Load balancing forwards data over multiple paths to alleviate any congestion in network traffic that may occur. 
  Event filtering analyzes each event and only forwards data that meets filter criteria.
  Once a Splunk forwarder is downloaded from the Splunk website, it can be installed. 
  The installation wizard provides opportunities for a username and password to be configured, as well as an endpoint specified to receive forwarded data. Additionally, a receiving indexer can be configured.

  There are four key Splunk universal forwarder configuration files:
  inputs.conf controls how the forwarder collects data.
  outputs.conf controls how the forwarder sends data to an indexer or other forwarder.
  server.conf controls connection and performance tuning.
  deploymentclient.conf controls connecting to a deployment server.

  The configuration files of the universal forwarder can be edited at the installation location, C:\Program Files\SplunkUniversalForwarder\etc\apps\SplunkUniversalForwarder\local.


