Cyber Threat Intelligence Overview

  At its heart, intelligence is the science and art of understanding the enemy. 
  As a discipline, intelligence is as old as warfare itself. Commanders have striven to predict the actions of their adversary, whether on a kinetic battlefield or in a futuristic cyberwar. 
  Understanding the enemy’s capability and intent is the only way to make informed decisions on one’s own tactics to employ in response.

  Understanding the Operational Environment (OE) — the conditions, circumstances, and influences that affect the employment of capabilities — is paramount to making sound decisions in both offensive and defensive engagements. 
  Traditionally in military intelligence, this refers to such things as the enemy’s firepower, aggressiveness, or infrastructure available to resupply their troops. 
  In the cyber domain, direct correlations can be made to “traditional” intelligence. The product of these correlations forms CTI.


Intelligence in the Cyber Domain
  CTI is analyzed, actionable information, derived internally or externally, that aids an organization in identifying, assessing, monitoring, and responding to cyber threats. 
  Because the cyber domain is now a major battlefield for crime, activism, and espionage, CTI has become increasingly essential to cyber defense. 
  Relying on current and historical attack knowledge, an analyst can leverage CTI to prepare for future attacks on a defended terrain. 

Data vs. Intelligence
  In other words, analysis is what separates information from intelligence. 
  For cyber defense, analysis is what makes data about threats in the cyber domain become CTI. 
  For example, a Domain Name System (DNS) lookup for example[.]com is a piece of data. 
  Further analysis may indicate that the domain is registered to Threat Actor, LLC, and can be tied to an ongoing espionage campaign. 
  That extra analysis step is what makes data useful intelligence.

The Intelligence Cycle
  Direction
    CTI analysis is always based on requirements. The first step of the Intelligence Cycle is to define a clear requirement or question for which intelligence should provide an answer. 
    Often, for external intelligence, this requirement or question is submitted to an intelligence analyst in the form of a Request for Information (RFI). 
    (The RFI process and format are covered later in this lesson.) Uses for intelligence are numerous, so RFIs may ask a wide variety of questions.

Collection
  The collection of cyber intelligence is typically the process of collecting data from networks useful in tracking a threat. 
  However, it may come in other forms as well, such as reading a news article for political or economic information pertaining to a mission partner’s organization or viewing data from an open honeypot provided by researchers on the internet. 
  At this point in the cycle, this is just data and not yet intelligence.

Processing
  An analyst should not overlook the importance of processing data to be usable. A CDA’s analysis platform should be flexible and configurable enough to view a multitude of different data types in a normalized way. 

Analysis
  CTI analysis is based on requirements. Without a requirement, the analysis has no question to answer. This is the step in which data becomes intelligence. 
  Questions asked, or requirements presented, in the initial step of the cycle (Direction) are answered using analysis.

Dissemination
  Intelligence is a shared commodity. It should be shared with the entity that requested the information, and it is often shared with a larger community of intelligence analysts. 
  CDAs should concern themselves with this step because the format and completeness of the collected data and analysis directly affect the value of the dissemination of intelligence.

Feedback
  The last step of the Intelligence Cycle is Feedback. Did the analysis properly answer the requirement? This is a question that CDAs should answer if requesting or analyzing intelligence. 
  If the intelligence fails to meet the requirement, a new cycle is started in which the error is corrected or intelligence gaps are identified more fully.


Levels of Intelligence
  When dealing with consuming or collecting intelligence on a network, intelligence comes in different forms and at different levels, depending on requirements given to an analyst. Consider the following examples:

  The political motivations of a threat group.
  A list of APTs assessed to have the capability and intent to target a mission partner’s network. 
  Domains tied to a specific APT for use in an Intrusion Detection System (IDS).

  Each example represents a different level of intelligence that a CPT may request or be required to fill. 
  The three levels, or taxonomic categories, of intelligence are strategic, operational, and tactical. The first example listed above represents strategic intelligence; the second, operational intelligence; and the third, tactical intelligence.

Strategic Intelligence
  Attacker motivations, politics, or trends that inform an organization’s policy decisions and planning represent the strategic level of intelligence. 
  Often, strategic intelligence is the trigger for the start of an operation or a change to network architecture.

Operational Intelligence
  Attacker Tactics, Techniques, and Procedures (TTP) and capability are typically viewed as operational intelligence. 
  This intelligence informs collection plans and mission-planning efforts prior to an incident response or hunt engagement.

Tactical Intelligence
  Immediately applicable intelligence, such as Indicators of Compromise (IOC), antivirus signatures, or IDS rules, fall into the tactical level of intelligence. 
  This intelligence is most useful for CDAs on a mission during on-network engagements and retroactive investigations.

Strategic intelligence reveals the motivations of an attacker. This informs such areas as collection plans and identification of threats to key terrain.
Operational intelligence provides analysts with possible TTPs to hunt while on mission. This is essential to mission planning and when building detection capabilities for a certain threat group.
Tactical intelligence gives analysts an opportunity to alert on specific, unique traits of an attacker. Although it is highly perishable, it can be extremely valuable and provides analysts real-time feedback.

Diamond Model
  A third CTI model is the Diamond Model of Intrusion Analysis, or, more simply, the Diamond Model. According to the Diamond Model, every cyber incident may be depicted as a diamond with four “points,” as illustrated in Figure 6.2-3 and described as follows:

  Adversary: The threat actor responsible for the cyber attack or any other malicious activity. 
  Capabilities: The TTPs associated with the adversary. 
  Infrastructure: The adversary’s assets, both physical and logical, that are leveraged in their operations. 
  Victim: The target of attacks, which may be organizations, individuals, or specific vulnerabilities.

  Unlike the ATT&CK and Cyber Kill Chain models, the Diamond Model emphasizes the relationships of each component in the model. 
  The relationships of the four points of the diamond may be analyzed, and greater insight into the threat actor may be gained. These points may be converged into a single phrase:


